.TH LoadTracker "Jul 19, 2026"
.SH NAME
loadtracker \- C64 music editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B loadtrk
.RI [ songname ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B loadtrk
command.
.PP
\fBloadtracker\fP is a C64 music tracker derived from goattracker.
It supports emulated output via the software reSIDfp engine or the exSID
soundcard, and produces songs in its gt2 format (*.SNG).
The program can also export tunes in SID format, BIN format,
or Commodore PRG format for inclusion on a floppy you can stick into
a 1541/1571/1581 drive.

Like most tracker programs, the program is able to import instrument files,
create and modify track patterns, set the order of playback of patterns and
change details of the song such as the title and author. If you are familiar
with tracker\-like programs, then LoadTracker will feel like a simple version
of those, though with differences attributable to the hardware. People new to
composing in general should look up other information on composing on the
C64.
.TP
\fB-A\fIxx\fR
Set ADSR parameter for hardrestart in hex. DEFAULT=0F00
.TP
\fB-D\fIxx\fR
Pattern row display (0 = decimal, 1 = hex, 2 = decimal w/dots, 3 = hex w/dots)
.TP
\fB-E\fIxx\fR
Set emulated SID model (0 = 6581 1 = 8580) DEFAULT=6581
.TP
\fB-F\fIxx\fR
Set custom SID clock cycles per second (0 = use PAL/NTSC default)
.TP
\fB-G\fIxx\fR
Set pitch of A-4 in Hz (0 = use default frequencytable, close to 440Hz)
.TP
\fB-I\fIxx\fR
Set reSIDfp resampling mode (0 = interpolation, 1 = resampling) DEFAULT=1
.TP
\fB-J\fIxx\fR
Set special note names (2 chars for every note in an octave/cycle, e.g. C-DbD-EbE-F-GbG-AbA-BbB-)
.TP
\fB-K\fIxx\fR
Note-entry mode (0 = Protracker, 1 = DMC, 2 = Janko) DEFAULT=Protracker
.TP
\fB-L\fIxx\fR
SID memory location in hex. DEFAULT=D400
.TP
\fB-M\fIxx\fR
Set sound mixing rate DEFAULT=48000
.TP
\fB-O\fIxx\fR
Set pulseoptimization/skipping (0 = off, 1 = on) DEFAULT=on
.TP
\fB-Q\fIxx\fR
Set equal divisions per octave (12 = default, 8.2019143 = Bohlen-Pierce)
.TP
\fB-R\fIxx\fR
Set realtime-effect optimization/skipping (0 = off, 1 = on) DEFAULT=on
.TP
\fB-S\fIxx\fR
Set speed multiplier (0 for 25Hz, 1 for 1x, 2 for 2x etc.)
.TP
\fB-V\fIxx\fR
Set finevibrato conversion (0 = off, 1 = on) DEFAULT=on
.TP
\fB-\fIXxx\fR
Set window type (0 = window, 1 = fullscreen) DEFAULT=window
.TP
\fB-Y\fIxx\fR
Path to a Scala tuning file .scl
.TP
\fB-Z\fIxx\fR
Set random SID write delay in cycles (0 = off) DEFAULT=off
.TP
\fB-b\fIxx\fR
Set filter curve (0.0 (dark) to 1.0 (bright))
.TP
\fB-c\fIxx\fR
Set combined waveforms strength (0 weak, 1 average, 2 strong) DEFAULT=average
.TP
\fB-x\fIxx\fR
Use exdSID (0 = off, 1 = on)
.TP
\fB-N\fR
Use NTSC timing
.TP
\fB-P\fR
Use PAL timing (DEFAULT)
.TP
\fB-W\fR
Write sound output to a file SIDAUDIO.RAW
.TP
\fB-?\fR
Show help
.TP
\fB-??\fR
Standalone online help window
.TP
\fB--dark\fR
Use original dark colorscheme
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ocp (1),
.BR protracker (1),
.BR milkytracker (1),
.BR schism (1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
loadtracker was written by Lasse \[:O]\[:o]rni, Jan Wassermann, Leandro Nini.
.PP
This manual page was written by G\[:u]rkan Seng\[:u]n <gurkan@phys.ethz.ch>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
