.TH LTReloc "Jul 22, 2026"
.SH NAME
ltreloc \- commandline relocator/packer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ltreloc
.RI [ songname ]
.RI [ outfile ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B loadtrk
command.
.PP
\fBltreloc\fP is a commandline relocator/packer based on goattracker's gt2reloc.

.TP
\fB-A\fIxx\fR
Set ADSR parameter for hardrestart in hex. DEFAULT=0F00
.TP
\fB-B\fIx\fR
Enable/disable buffered SID writes. DEFAULT=disabled
.TP
\fB-C\fIx\fR
Enable/disable zeropage ghost registers. DEFAULT=disabled
.TP
\fB-D\fIx\fR
Enable/disable sound effect support. DEFAULT=disabled
.TP
\fB-E\fIx\fR
Enable/disable volume change support. DEFAULT=disabled
.TP
\fB-F\fIxx\fR
Set custom SID clock cycles per second (0 = use PAL/NTSC default)
.TP
\fB-G\fIxx\fR
Set pitch of A-4 in Hz (0 = use default frequencytable, close to 440Hz)
.TP
\fB-H\fIx\fR
Enable/disable storing of author info. DEFAULT=disabled
.TP
\fB-I\fIx\fR
Enable/disable optimizations. DEFAULT=enabled
.TP
\fB-J\fIx\fR
Enable/disable full buffering. DEFAULT=disabled
.TP
\fB-L\fIxx\fR
SID memory location in hex. DEFAULT=D400
.TP
\fB-O\fIxx\fR
Set pulseoptimization/skipping (0 = off, 1 = on) DEFAULT=on
.TP
\fB-R\fIxx\fR
Set realtime-effect optimization/skipping (0 = off, 1 = on) DEFAULT=on
.TP
\fB-S\fIxx\fR
Set speed multiplier (0 for 25Hz, 1 for 1x, 2 for 2x etc.) DEFAULT=1
.TP
\fB-V\fIxx\fR
Set finevibrato conversion (0 = off, 1 = on) DEFAULT=on
.TP
\fB-W\fIXxx\fR
Player memory location highbyte in hex. DEFAULT=1000
.TP
\fB-Z\fIxx\fR
Zeropage memory location in hex. DEFAULT=FC
.TP
\fB-N\fR
Use NTSC timing
.TP
\fB-P\fR
Use PAL timing (DEFAULT)
.TP
\fB-?\fR
Show help
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR loadtrk (1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
ltreloc was written by Lasse \[:O]\[:o]rni, Leandro Nini.
.PP
This manual page was written by G\[:u]rkan Seng\[:u]n <gurkan@phys.ethz.ch>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
